# Dec 23, 2023

The accuracy of hyperlinks and line numbers in this file may be compromised by subsequent commits. Prior to reviewing, ensure you have checked out the correct version.

This document only highlights major changes. Please use the source control software to access a comprehensive history of all modifications.

## Support for Terrestrial Drones

EGO-Planner V2 provides native support for aerial drones. In this enhanced version, support is extended to include terrestrial drones, both with and without the non-holonomic constraint.

### Related Parameters

#### `drone_type`
* `0`: aerial (copter).
* `1`: omnidirectional drive.
* `2`: differential drive.

### Related Code

#### `dyn_a_star`
* Header
  * [Line 94](../src/ego_planner/include/path_searching/dyn_a_star.h#L94): Introduces an option to disable vertical search.
* Source
  * [Line 182](../src/ego_planner/src/path_searching/dyn_a_star.cpp#L182): Implements the functionality to skip vertical search.

#### `plan_manage`
* Source `planner_manager.cpp`
    * [Line 24](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/planner_manager.cpp#L24): reads drone type from ROS parameter.
    * [Line 219](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/planner_manager.cpp#L219): implements different random point generation for the initial trajectory.
* Source `ego_replan_fsm.cpp`
    * [Line 150](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L150): sets different maximum allowed re-plan times.
    * [Line 779](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L779): modifies the goal height in case of ground robots.

#### `poly_traj_optimizer`
* Header
    * [Line 95](../src/ego_planner/include/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.h#L95): declares the variable holding drone type.
* Source
    * [Line 262](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L262): calls A* searching according to drone type.
    * [Line 555](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L555): calls A* searching according to drone type.
    * [Line 1702](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1702): reads drone type from ROS parameter.
    * [Line 1711](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1711): sets different A* searching space according to drone type.

#### `poscmd_2_odom`
* Source
    * [Line 34](../src/simulator/src/poscmd_2_odom.cpp#L34): sets different pose according to drone type.

## Non-holonomic Constraint

EGO-Planner does not incorporate heading planning. In the case of drones without the non-holonomic constraint, the desired heading (yaw) command is determined by calculating the direction from the current position to a point on the trajectory in the near future (in `dt` units of time). The resultant command undergoes a limitation process based on the maximum angular velocity and acceleration settings. However, for drones with the non-holonomic constraint, the desired yaw is rigid, aligning with the direction of the current velocity. EGO-Planner V2.1 introduces two options:

The first option involves incorporating angular velocity and acceleration constraints during trajectory optimization. Although this feature is included for comparison, it is turned off by default.

The alternative option is to implement a Model Predictive Controller (MPC) alongside the planner. This approach proves more practical, enabling enhanced exploitation of the state space without introducing excessive computational overhead. The first option, involving constraints, is maintained for comparative purposes but remains deactivated by default.

### Related Parameters

#### `enable_angular_constraints`
* `0`: false, angular motion constraints in trajectory optimization are disabled.
* `1`: true, angular motion constraints in trajectory optimization are enabled.

#### `max_angular_vel` & `max_angular_acc`
* These parameters are only for angular motion constraints in trajectory optimization, if `enable_angular_constraints` is `0`, then they are ignored.

#### `diffdrive_use_mpc`
* `0`: MPC is not enabled, `traj_server` sets yaw directly according to the direction of linear velocity.
* `1`: MPC is enabled, `traj_server` runs MPC and sets yaw according to an ideally simulated numerical model.

#### `cmd_vel_thresh`
* This parameter was originally intended to establish a control deadzone specifically for differential drive robots, addressing the challenge of handling angular motion near zero velocity. However, it is disregarded when the Model Predictive Controller (MPC) is employed.

#### `diffdrive_acados.py`
* Parameters for the MPC are only set in this [script](../src/ego_planner/scripts/diffdrive_acados.py).
    ```py
    d = 0.4  # distance between 2 wheels, meters
    max_wheel_linear_vel = 1  # vl, vr, meters/sec
    max_linear_acc = 5
    max_angular_acc = 12
    predict_time_horizon = 1.0
    predict_node_num = 20
    sim_dt = 0.01  # 100 Hz
    mat_W = np.diag([5, 5, 1, 1, 3, 0.001, 0.001])
    mat_We = np.diag([2, 2, 1, 1, 1.5])
    ```

### Related Code

#### `poly_traj_optimizer`
* Changes in this file are for the first aforementioned option.
* Header
    * [Line 93](../src/ego_planner/include/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.h#L93): declares variables holding max values and the enabling flag.
    * [Line 213](../src/ego_planner/include/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.h#L213): declares functions for angular motion constraint violation.
* Source 
    * [Line 1119](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1119): declares local variables for cost and gradient calculation.
    * [Line 1156](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1156): calculates angular motion values (velocity, acceleration, jerk).
    * [Line 1237](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1237): calculates costs and gradients for optimization.
    * [Line 1585](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1585): implements functions for angular motion constraint violation.
    * [Line 1699](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1699): reads related parameters from ROS.

#### `diffdrive_acados.py`
* This entire file is for defining the optimal control problem (OCP) that is solved repeatedly in the MPC. It also generates C code upon running.

#### `traj_server`
* Source
    * [Line 36](../src/ego_planner/src/traj_server.cpp#L40): declares necessary variables and structures for yaw calculation and MPC.
    * [Line 216](../src/ego_planner/src/traj_server.cpp#L216): implements yaw calculation and MPC.
    * [Line 292](../src/ego_planner/src/traj_server.cpp#L292): implements control deadzone and numerical simulation.
    * [Line 411](../src/ego_planner/src/traj_server.cpp#L411): reads params from ROS and inits MPC.

#### `plan_manage`
* Source `ego_replan_fsm.cpp`
    * [Line 621](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L621): uses states from odometry instead trajectory, if using MPC (the default for diff-drive robots).

## Heterogeneous Swarm Coordination

With terrestrial drones running, we must consider mutual avoidance within the swarm and body shapes of the drones. An aerial drone is modeled as a sphere parameterized by radius only. A terrestrial drone is modeled as a cylinder, parameterized by both radius and height.

The current version introduces coordination capabilities for air-to-ground, ground-to-ground, and ground-to-air scenarios. However, it's important to note that in air-to-ground coordination, aerial drones are currently restricted to horizontal movement only.

### Related Parameters

#### `body_height` & `body_radius`
* Copters will ignore `body_height`.

### Related Code

#### `MINCOTraj.msg`
* Drone type, body height and radius are added fields.

#### `poly_traj_optimizer`
* Header
    * [Line 96](../src/ego_planner/include/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.h#L96): declares variables holding body height and radius.
* Source
    * [Line 84](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L84): "swarm too close" condition is determined by agent body parameters.
    * [Line 1502](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1502): implements the coordination through modifying the distance coefficient matrix, and skipping instances based on drone type.
    *  [Line 1703](../src/ego_planner/src/optimizer/poly_traj_optimizer.cpp#L1703): reads body height and radius from ROS.

#### `traj_utils`
* Header `plan_contrainer.hpp`
    * [Line 41](../src/ego_planner/include/traj_utils/plan_container.hpp#L41): drone type, body height and radius are added to `struct LocalTrajData`.
    * [Line 94](../src/ego_planner/include/traj_utils/plan_container.hpp#L94): drone type, body height and radius are added to `struct PlanParameters`.

#### `plan_manage`
* Source `planner_manager.cpp`
    * [Line 25](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/planner_manager.cpp#L25): reads body parameters from ROS.
* Source `ego_replan_fsm.cpp`
    * [Line 933](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L933): reads body parameters from other MINCO trajectories.
    * [Line 991](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L991): fills in body parameters for broadcasting.

## Habitat Simulator Integration

Habitat simulator can load indoor scenes from datasets such as `Matterport3D` and `Gibson` and render photo-realistic RGBD images at given poses. The simulator is integrated in this version to support realistic simulation of indoor navigation.

### Related Parameters

[`habitat_renderer.launch`](../src/simulator/launch/habitat/habitat_renderer.launch)
* Required parameters are set in this launch file.

[`habitat_sim.xml`](../src/node_launcher/launch/include/habitat_sim.xml)
* It provides an example using `habitat_renderer.launch`.

[`scene_mesh_to_pcd.launch`](../src/simulator/launch/habitat/scene_mesh_to_pcd.launch)
* It provides an example for using `scene_mesh_to_pcd.py`.

### Related Code

#### [`habitat_renderer.py`](../src/simulator/scripts/habitat_renderer.py)
* This script loads the scene file, creates a free-moving agent, updates the agent's pose, and publishes the sensor stream and processed point cloud.

#### [`scene_mesh_to_pcd.py`](../src/simulator/scripts/scene_mesh_to_pcd.py)
* This scripts loads the scene file, sample points from the mesh and publishes the point cloud. It is for visualization only.

## Path Guided Local Target Selection

The standard local target selection strategy faces challenges in structured and narrow indoor environments, often failing when the goal point is in close proximity to the start but on the opposite side of a wall. The introduction of path-guided local target selection enhances the drone's ability to navigate through such scenarios, significantly improving the success rate of indoor navigation without relying on a global planner.

In the case of an aerial drone, the guiding path is determined using a bidirectional fast marching tree (BFMT), implemented with OMPL. For a terrestrial drone, the path is generated using dynamic A*, a functionality native to the original version.

### Related Parameters

#### `rdp_eps`
* The Ramer-Douglas-Peucker algorithm is adopted to simplify the guiding path. This parameter defines the distance threshold utilized in the algorithm.
* Its value should be greater than `0.1`. A higher value results in a more simplified guiding path.

### Related Code

#### `path_searching`
* [`ompl_search.cpp`](../src/ego_planner/src/path_searching/ompl_search.cpp) & [`ompl_search.h`](../src/ego_planner/include/path_searching/ompl_search.h).

#### `plan_manage`
* Source `ego_replan_fsm.cpp`
    * [Line 220](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L220): implements the path searching logic.
    * [Line 266](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/ego_replan_fsm.cpp#L266): implements the guiding process.

* Source `planner_manager.cpp`
    * [Line 403](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/planner_manager.cpp#L403): provides an interface to call A* path searching.
    * [Line 429](../src/ego_planner/src/plan_manage/planner_manager.cpp#L429): provides an interface to call BFMT (OMPL) path searching.
